tools/sdk/vector-sdk/README.md, before:

# Anki Vector - Python SDK

## Getting Started

Before connecting, you will need:

* Vector's Name: This is the name displayed on his face for BLE pairing after you double click while Vector is on the charger. Example: `Vector-A1B2`
* Vector's IP Address: The ip address can be found by first placing Vector on the charger, then double-clicking the button on his back, and finally raising and lowering his arms. It is possible for your ip to change based on your network settings, so it must be updated accordingly. Example: `192.168.43.48`
* Vector's Serial Number: You may find this number on the underside of your robot. Example: `00e20115`

These will be needed to run the configure.py script and set up authentication with your Vector.

## Installation Steps

Install python3:

```bash
brew install python
```

---

Either:

* In the future, you may download the required python packages from PyPi: `pip3 install anki_vector`

Or:

* Install a specific build of the Anki Vector SDK using `pip3 install .`

---

Then configure your `anki_vector` SDK authentication from a terminal using:

```bash
python3 configure.py
```

If you have any trouble, please contact a member of the SDK team.

---

Run the scripts under `examples/tutorials` to test out the installation using:

```bash
python3 examples/tutorials/01_hello_world.py -e ${VECTOR_SERIAL_NUMBER}
```

> Note: Replace `${VECTOR_SERIAL_NUMBER}` with your robot's serial number.

---

Until the documentation is uploaded to the anki.com website, check out the documentation:

```bash
cd docs
make html
open build/html/index.html
```

If you encounter any issues, please reach out to the SDK team and let us know.

Commit message:

VIC-6076 Python SDK disclaimer text (#3782)
Add configure.py and README text as recommended by Lia and Talha.

When PP, Terms and FAQ links are available, these need to be added to README, SDK website and configure, task captured in ticket VIC-7709.

Also:
* add audio to documentation
* add import try/catch to audio sample code

tools/sdk/vector-sdk/README.md, after:

# Anki Vector - Python SDK

## Getting Started

Before connecting, you will need:

* Vector's Name: This is the name displayed on his face for BLE pairing after you double click while Vector is on the charger. Example: `Vector-A1B2`
* Vector's IP Address: The ip address can be found by first placing Vector on the charger, then double-clicking the button on his back, and finally raising and lowering his arms. It is possible for your ip to change based on your network settings, so it must be updated accordingly. Example: `192.168.43.48`
* Vector's Serial Number: You may find this number on the underside of your robot. Example: `00e20115`

These will be needed to run the configure.py script and set up authentication with your Vector.

Your device must have Python 3.6 installed. Please see the documentation pages mentioned below for instructions to install Python.


---

Either:

* In the future, you may download the required python packages from PyPi: `pip3 install anki_vector`

Or:

* Install a specific build of the Anki Vector SDK using `pip3 install .`

---

Then configure your `anki_vector` SDK authentication from a terminal using:

```bash
python3 configure.py
```

By running this script, you will be asked to provide your Anki account credentials, and the script will download an authentication token and cert that will grant you access to the robot and his capabilities (such as camera and audio) as well as data stored on the robot (such as faces and photos).

The downloaded access token is equivalent to your account credentials. It will be stored in your user directory along with a robot identity certificate and other useful data for establishing a connection. Do not share your access token.

If you have any trouble, please post to the Vector forums at https://forums.anki.com/

---

Run the scripts under `examples/tutorials` to test out the installation using:

```bash
python3 examples/tutorials/01_hello_world.py --serial ${VECTOR_SERIAL_NUMBER}
```

> Note: Replace `${VECTOR_SERIAL_NUMBER}` with your robot's serial number.

---

Check out the documentation by opening docs/build/html/index.html in your browser.

If you encounter any issues, please reach out to the forums team and let us know at https://forums.anki.com/

---

Use of Vector and the Vector SDK is subject to Anki's Privacy Policy and Terms and Conditions.
Learn more at the Vector FAQ.

TODO Add links here
