tools/sdk/vector-sdk/docs/source/advanced-tips.rst, before:

.. _advanced-tips:

#############
Advanced Tips
#############


^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^
Set ANKI_ROBOT_SERIAL
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

In order to avoid entering Vector's serial number for each program run,
you can create environment variable ``ANKI_ROBOT_SERIAL``
and set it to Vector's serial number::

    export ANKI_ROBOT_SERIAL=00e20100


^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^
Set ANKI_ROBOT_HOST and VECTOR_ROBOT_NAME
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

When running ``configure.py``, you must provide Vector's ip and name.
To avoid typing these in, you can instead create environment variables
ANKI_ROBOT_HOST and VECTOR_ROBOT_NAME. Then ``configure.py`` will automatically pick
up those settings::

    export ANKI_ROBOT_HOST="192.168.42.42"
    export VECTOR_ROBOT_NAME=Vector-A1B2



----

`Terms and Conditions <https://www.anki.com/en-us/company/terms-and-conditions>`_ and `Privacy Policy <https://www.anki.com/en-us/company/privacy>`_

`Click here to return to the Anki Developer website. <http://developer.anki.com>`_

Commit message:

VIC-8544 VIC-8545 [Python SDK] configure.py errors + ease of use (#3963)
- Added better error handling when you're unable to connect to Vector in configure.py
- Made it simple to update your ip address directly via configure.py

tools/sdk/vector-sdk/docs/source/advanced-tips.rst, after:

.. _advanced-tips:

#############
Advanced Tips
#############

^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^
Moving Vector Between WiFi Networks
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

When you move Vector from one WiFi network to another (using the Vector App),
you will also need to make some changes to your SDK setup. To assist in this
migration, ``configure.py`` provides a ``-u`` parameter to quickly
reconnect to Vector.

To update your connection, you will need to find the IP address on
Vector's face, and the serial number of the robot you are updating.
Then from your terminal run::

    python3 configure.py -u "<your_new_ip>" -s "<your_robot_serial_number>"

^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^
Set ANKI_ROBOT_SERIAL
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

In order to avoid entering Vector's serial number for each program run,
you can create environment variable ``ANKI_ROBOT_SERIAL``
and set it to Vector's serial number::

    export ANKI_ROBOT_SERIAL=00e20100


^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^
Set ANKI_ROBOT_HOST and VECTOR_ROBOT_NAME
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

When running ``configure.py``, you must provide Vector's ip and name.
To avoid typing these in, you can instead create environment variables
ANKI_ROBOT_HOST and VECTOR_ROBOT_NAME. Then ``configure.py`` will automatically pick
up those settings::

    export ANKI_ROBOT_HOST="192.168.42.42"
    export VECTOR_ROBOT_NAME=Vector-A1B2



----

`Terms and Conditions <https://www.anki.com/en-us/company/terms-and-conditions>`_ and `Privacy Policy <https://www.anki.com/en-us/company/privacy>`_

`Click here to return to the Anki Developer website. <http://developer.anki.com>`_
