tools/sdk/vector-sdk/docs/source/install-linux.rst, before:

.. _install-linux:

####################
Installation - Linux
####################

^^^^^^^^^^^^^
Prerequisites
^^^^^^^^^^^^^

* Vector is powered on.
* You have successfully created an Anki account.
* Vector has been set up with the Vector companion app.
* The Vector companion app is *not* currently connected to Vector.
* Vector is connected to the same network as your computer.
* You can see Vector's eyes on his screen.


This guide provides instructions on installing the Vector SDK for computers running with an Ubuntu Linux operating system.

.. warning:: The Vector SDK is tested and and supported on Ubuntu 16.04 and 18.04. Anki makes no guarantee the Vector SDK will work on other versions of Linux.  If you wish to try the Vector SDK on versions of Linux *other than* Ubuntu 16.04 or 18.04, please ensure the following dependencies are installed:

  * Python 3.6.1 or later
  * pip for Python 3 (Python package installer)



^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^
Ubuntu 16.04 and 18.04
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

"""""""""""""""""""
Python Installation
"""""""""""""""""""

1. Type the following into your Terminal window to install Python::

    sudo apt-get update
    sudo apt-get install python3

2. Then install pip by typing in the following into the Terminal window::

    sudo apt install python3-pip

3. Last, install Tkinter::

    sudo apt-get install python3-pil.imagetk

""""""""""""""""
SDK Installation
""""""""""""""""

To install the SDK, type the following into the Terminal window::

    pip3 install --user vector-0.4-py3-none-any.whl

^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^
Vector Authentication
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

To authenticate with the robot, type the following into the Terminal window::

    cd vector-sdk
    ./configure.py

You will be prompted for your robot's name, ip address and serial number. You will also be asked for your Anki login and password.

.. note:: Running `configure.py` will automatically download the Vector robot certificate to your computer and store credentials to allow you to connect to Vector. These credentials will be stored under your home directory in folder `.anki_vector`.

.. warning:: These credentials give full access to your robot, including camera stream, audio stream and data. Do not share these credentials.

^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^
Extra Dependencies
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

There are a few extra packages that must be installed to run the experimental examples. To install these dependencies, enter this command::

    cd vector-sdk
    pip3 install .[experimental]

^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^
Troubleshooting
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

Please see the :doc:`Troubleshooting </troubleshooting>` page for tips, or visit the `Anki SDK Forums <https://forums.anki.com/>`_ to ask questions, find solutions, or for general discussion.

----

`Terms and Conditions <https://www.anki.com/en-us/company/terms-and-conditions>`_ and `Privacy Policy <https://www.anki.com/en-us/company/privacy>`_

`Click here to return to the Anki Developer website. <http://developer.anki.com>`_

Commit message:

VIC-7403 Python SDK: list build steps and update doc instructions (#3901)
* Prepare list of build steps. Ultimately we should create one or more scripts to do this, and also use the good practices (like virtualenv) that we do for Cozmo. For now, let's come to an agreement on what the steps are, and when time permits, build the script(s).
* Update the docs to refer to the compressed files.
* Other doc fixes

tools/sdk/vector-sdk/docs/source/install-linux.rst, after:

.. _install-linux:

####################
Installation - Linux
####################

^^^^^^^^^^^^^
Prerequisites
^^^^^^^^^^^^^

* Vector is powered on.
* You have successfully created an Anki account.
* Vector has been set up with the Vector companion app.
* You have updated Vector to OS 1.0.1 or later. Check the OS version by putting Vector on the charger, double-tapping his backpack button, and raising and lowering his lift once.
* The Vector companion app is *not* currently connected to Vector.
* Vector is connected to the same network as your computer.
* You can see Vector's eyes on his screen.


This guide provides instructions on installing the Vector SDK for computers running with an Ubuntu Linux operating system.

.. warning:: The Vector SDK is tested and and supported on Ubuntu 16.04 and 18.04. Anki makes no guarantee the Vector SDK will work on other versions of Linux.  If you wish to try the Vector SDK on versions of Linux *other than* Ubuntu 16.04 or 18.04, please ensure the following dependencies are installed:

  * Python 3.6.1 or later
  * pip for Python 3 (Python package installer)



^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^
Ubuntu 16.04 and 18.04
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

"""""""""""""""""""
Python Installation
"""""""""""""""""""

1. Type the following into your Terminal window to install Python::

    sudo apt-get update
    sudo apt-get install python3

2. Then install pip by typing in the following into the Terminal window::

    sudo apt install python3-pip

3. Last, install Tkinter::

    sudo apt-get install python3-pil.imagetk

""""""""""""""""
SDK Installation
""""""""""""""""

To install the SDK, first download file ``vector_python_sdk_0.4.0.tar.gz``.

Uncompress the file by calling this command in a Terminal window::

    tar xvzf vector_python_sdk_0.4.0.tar.gz

To install the SDK, type the following into the Terminal window::

    cd vector_python_sdk_0.4.0
    python3 -m pip install .

^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^
Vector Authentication
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

To authenticate with the robot, type the following into the Terminal window::

    cd vector_python_sdk_0.4.0
    ./configure.py

You will be prompted for your robot's name, ip address and serial number. You will also be asked for your Anki login and password.

.. note:: Running ``configure.py`` will automatically download the Vector robot certificate to your computer and store credentials to allow you to connect to Vector. These credentials will be stored under your home directory in folder ``.anki_vector``.

.. warning:: These credentials give full access to your robot, including camera stream, audio stream and data. Do not share these credentials.

^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^
Troubleshooting
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

Please see the :doc:`Troubleshooting </troubleshooting>` page for tips, or visit the `Anki SDK Forums <https://forums.anki.com/>`_ to ask questions, find solutions, or for general discussion.

----

`Terms and Conditions <https://www.anki.com/en-us/company/terms-and-conditions>`_ and `Privacy Policy <https://www.anki.com/en-us/company/privacy>`_

`Click here to return to the Anki Developer website. <http://developer.anki.com>`_
