tools/sdk/vector-sdk/docs/source/install-macos.rst, before:

.. _install-macos:

###########################
Installation - macOS / OS X
###########################

This guide provides instructions on installing the Vector SDK for computers running with a macOS operating system.

^^^^^^^^^^^^^
Prerequisites
^^^^^^^^^^^^^

* Vector is powered on.
* You have successfully created an Anki account.
* Vector has been set up with the Vector companion app.
* The Vector companion app is *not* currently connected to Vector.
* Vector is connected to the same network as your computer.
* You can see Vector's eyes on his screen.


^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^
Python Installation
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

1. Install `Homebrew <http://brew.sh>`_ on your system according to the latest instructions. If you already had brew installed then update it by opening a Terminal window and typing in the following::

    brew update

2. Once Homebrew is installed and updated, type the following into the Terminal window to install the latest version of Python 3::

    brew install python3

^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^
SDK Installation
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

To install the SDK, type the following into the Terminal window::

    cd vector-sdk
    pip3 install --user vector-0.4-py3-none-any.whl

^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^
Vector Authentication
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

To authenticate with the robot, type the following into the Terminal window::

    cd vector-sdk
    ./configure.py

You will be prompted for your robot's name, ip address and serial number. You will also be asked for your Anki login and password.

.. note:: Running `configure.py` will automatically download the Vector robot certificate to your computer and store credentials to allow you to connect to Vector. These credentials will be stored under your home directory in folder `.anki_vector`.

.. warning:: These credentials give full access to your robot, including camera stream, audio stream and data. Do not share these credentials.

^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^
Extra Dependencies
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

There are a few extra packages that must be installed to run the experimental examples. To install these dependencies, enter this command::

    cd vector-sdk
    pip3 install .[experimental]

^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^
Troubleshooting
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

Please see the :doc:`Troubleshooting </troubleshooting>` page for tips, or visit the `Anki SDK Forums <https://forums.anki.com/>`_ to ask questions, find solutions, or for general discussion.

----

`Terms and Conditions <https://www.anki.com/en-us/company/terms-and-conditions>`_ and `Privacy Policy <https://www.anki.com/en-us/company/privacy>`_

`Click here to return to the Anki Developer website. <http://developer.anki.com>`_

Commit message:

VIC-7403 Python SDK: list build steps and update doc instructions (#3901)
* Prepare list of build steps. Ultimately we should create one or more scripts to do this, and also use the good practices (like virtualenv) that we do for Cozmo. For now, let's come to an agreement on what the steps are, and when time permits, build the script(s).
* Update the docs to refer to the compressed files.
* Other doc fixes

tools/sdk/vector-sdk/docs/source/install-macos.rst, after:

.. _install-macos:

###########################
Installation - macOS / OS X
###########################

This guide provides instructions on installing the Vector SDK for computers running with a macOS operating system.

^^^^^^^^^^^^^
Prerequisites
^^^^^^^^^^^^^

* Vector is powered on.
* You have successfully created an Anki account.
* Vector has been set up with the Vector companion app.
* You have updated Vector to OS 1.0.1 or later. Check the OS version by putting Vector on the charger, double-tapping his backpack button, and raising and lowering his lift once.
* The Vector companion app is *not* currently connected to Vector.
* Vector is connected to the same network as your computer.
* You can see Vector's eyes on his screen.


^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^
Python Installation
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

1. Install `Homebrew <http://brew.sh>`_ on your system according to the latest instructions. If you already had brew installed then update it by opening a Terminal window and typing in the following::

    brew update

2. Once Homebrew is installed and updated, type the following into the Terminal window to install the latest version of Python 3::

    brew install python3

^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^
SDK Installation
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

To install the SDK, first download file ``vector_python_sdk_0.4.0.zip`` to your ``Downloads/`` directory.

Uncompress the file in Finder by double-clicking on ``vector_python_sdk_0.4.0.zip``.

Navigate into the SDK folder and install by typing the following into a Terminal window::

    cd ~/Downloads
    cd vector_python_sdk_0.4.0
    python3 -m pip install .

^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^
Vector Authentication
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

To authenticate with the robot, type the following into the Terminal window::

    cd vector_python_sdk_0.4.0
    ./configure.py

You will be prompted for your robot's name, ip address and serial number. You will also be asked for your Anki login and password.

.. note:: Running ``configure.py`` will automatically download the Vector robot certificate to your computer and store credentials to allow you to connect to Vector. These credentials will be stored under your home directory in folder ``.anki_vector``.

.. warning:: These credentials give full access to your robot, including camera stream, audio stream and data. Do not share these credentials.

^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^
Troubleshooting
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

Please see the :doc:`Troubleshooting </troubleshooting>` page for tips, or visit the `Anki SDK Forums <https://forums.anki.com/>`_ to ask questions, find solutions, or for general discussion.

----

`Terms and Conditions <https://www.anki.com/en-us/company/terms-and-conditions>`_ and `Privacy Policy <https://www.anki.com/en-us/company/privacy>`_

`Click here to return to the Anki Developer website. <http://developer.anki.com>`_
