docs/FAQ.md, before:

## FAQ

If you have a question that you get answered (e.g. in a Slack channel) which might plague others, consider creating an entry here for it.

Additional troubleshooting can be found on [Confluence](https://ankiinc.atlassian.net/wiki/spaces/ATT/pages/362807304/Victor+Build+Troubleshooting).

* How do I set a console var from Webots?
  - Set the `consoleVarName` and `consoleVarValue` strings under the WebotsKeyboardController in the scene tree at left. Press `]` (closing square bracket) to send the message to the engine to set the console var. 
  - Using `}` (closing curly brace) instead will use the name and value strings as a console _function_ and its arguments instead.
  - Hold down `ALT` to send either of the above to the animation process to set console vars/functions there.

* How do I access the Victor embedded web server, from which I can set console vars?
  - [Run the Victor web server](/docs/development/web-server.md) 
  
* `victor_stop`/`victor_restart` hangs with `stopping <number>...` when trying to kill one of the processes
  - Manually kill the process with `ssh <robot-ip> kill -9 <number>`
  - Run `victor_stop` to ensure the rest of the processes are stopped
  
* One of the processes crashed/aborted and the stack trace has no symbols, how do I get symbols for the trace?
  - Manually deploy the full libraries (with symbols) to the robot; they are located in `_build/vicos/<Debug/Release>/lib/*.so.full`
  - `scp _build/vicos/<Debug/Release>/lib/<one_or_more_of_the_libraries>.so.full /anki/lib/<one_or_more_of_the_libraries>.so`
  - Reproduce the crash and you should now see symbols
  
* How do I do performance analysis/benchmarking on robot?
  - Use simpleperf to generate list of highest overhead functions in a process by running [`project/victor/simpleperf/HOW-simpleperf.sh`](/project/victor/simpleperf/HOW-simpleperf.sh)
  - If the script fails with the error: `[native_lib_dir] "./project/victor/simpleperf/symbol_cache" is not a dir`, cd into `./project/victor/simpleperf/` and run `make_symbol_cache.sh`
  - Use inferno to generate a flame graph of call hierarchies by running [`project/victor/simpleperf/HOW-inferno.sh`](/project/victor/simpleperf/HOW-inferno.sh)
  - By default both scripts run on the engine process, `cozmoengined`. Change this by prepending `ANKI_PROFILE_PROCNAME="<name_of_process>"` to the command to run the script. The other two process names are `victor_animator` and `robot_supervisor`
  - To see overall cpu load per process run `top -m 10`
  
* Victor won't turn on, the top backpack light blinks orange/red
  - Victor has low battery, turn Victor off and turn back on with the backpack button. Put Victor on the charger and the lights should return to normal multicolor or green, leave on charger for ~30 minutes
  
* `Sending Mode Change ...` or `spine_header ...` errors continually spam in the logs
  - Ensure you have deployed correctly built code otherwise Syscon and robot process are likely incompatible, give to [Al](https://ankiinc.atlassian.net/wiki/display/~Al.Chaussee) or [Kevin](https://ankiinc.atlassian.net/wiki/display/~kevin) to have firmware flashed
  
* I can't connect or ping Victor, he doesn't seem to be connected to wifi
  - Use the companion app, Chewie, to configure Victor's WiFi

* Deploying is super slow
  - Try turning off wifi on your laptop and use ethernet instead
  - Run `victor_stop` before deploying
  - Try moving to somewhere else in the office, a conference room or the kitchen. Might be an access point/network problem
  - If nothing seems to help consider bringing to HW team, could be a bad antenna
  
* Deploying to the robot fails (possibly complains about out of disk space?)
  - You can safely remove the cache and persistent folders with `ssh <robot-ip> rm -rf /data/data/com.anki.victor/cache /data/data/com.anki.victor/persistent`
  - If this isn't enough, in the shell you can check disk usage with `df` to list percentage of space each section has free, you should only care about the `/` and `/data` sections. The percentage indicates how much space the section is using out of how much total space it has.
  - You can then inspect space usage with `du -h /anki` which will list disk usage of all directories in `/anki`. Most things that get deployed live in `/anki`. Files that get generated at run-time may be stored in `/data/data/com.anki.victor`.
  - You can also delete the `/anki` folder with `rm -rf /anki`, but in general you should never have to do. It may be useful when the you get an error like this.
  
```
$ victor_deploy
INSTALL_ROOT: /anki
rsync: failed to connect to 192.168.42.251: Connection refused (61)
rsync error: error in socket IO (code 10) at /BuildRoot/Library/Caches/com.apple.xbs/Sources/rsync/rsync-51/rsync/clientserver.c(106) [sender=2.6.9]
```
  
* How do I run unit tests
  - https://ankiinc.atlassian.net/wiki/spaces/VD/pages/149363555/Victor+Unit+Tests

* I get permission denied during build `error: can't exec 'victor/_build/mac/Debug-Xcode/launch-c' (Permission denied)`
  - `chmod u=rwx victor/_build/mac/Debug-Xcode/launch-c`
  - `chmod u=rwx victor/_build/mac/Debug-Xcode/launch-cxx`

* To check the battery level:
  - Not sure how to do this?

* Webots Firewall Connection issues?
  - [Create a code signing certificate](/project/build-scripts/webots/FirewallCertificateInstructions.md)
  - [Run a sample script to initially sign](/simulator/README.md#firewall)

* Can't generate Xcode project using `build-victor.sh -p mac -g Xcode -C` and getting error output like this
```
-- The C compiler identification is unknown
-- The CXX compiler identification is unknown
CMake Error at CMakeLists.txt:9 (project):
  No CMAKE_C_COMPILER could be found.
CMake Error at CMakeLists.txt:9 (project):
  No CMAKE_CXX_COMPILER could be found.
```

  * ... then perform these steps (continued from above)
   	* Install command line tools
    * `sudo xcode-select -s /Applications/Xcode.app/Contents/Developer`# New Document
   
* Can't generate Xcode project using `build-victor.sh -g Xcode -C` and getting error output like this
```
CMake Error at lib/util/source/3rd/civetweb/cmake/FindWinSock.cmake:77 (if):
  if given arguments:

    "x86_64" "STREQUAL" "AMD64" "AND" "EQUAL" "4"

  Unknown arguments specified
Call Stack (most recent call first):
  lib/util/source/3rd/civetweb/src/CMakeLists.txt:26 (find_package)
```

  * you forgot `-p mac`
  
* My Victor won't turn on/stay on
  - If only the top backpack light blinks when on the charger then the robot is low on battery and will not turn on by just being placed on the charger
  - First turn the robot on with the backpack button and all the lights should turn on as normal
  - Quickly place the robot on the charger. It should stay on at this point and begin charging
  - Leave the robot on the charger for ~30 minutes

* When profiling I see "...doesn't contain symbol table"
  - This is just a warning, there are no symbol tables for the .so files on the device, instead we use symbols from the symbol cache

* How do I decipher this crash in the victor log

```
12-31 16:22:17.366  2534  2733 F libc    : Fatal signal 11 (SIGSEGV), code 1, fault addr 0x0 in tid 2733 (CozmoRunner)
12-31 16:22:17.367  1848  1848 W         : debuggerd: handling request: pid=2534 uid=0 gid=0 tid=2733
12-31 16:22:17.413  2884  2884 E         : debuggerd: Unable to connect to activity manager (connect failed: No such file or directory)
12-31 16:22:17.465  2884  2884 F DEBUG   : *** *** *** *** *** *** *** *** *** *** *** *** *** *** *** ***
12-31 16:22:17.465  2884  2884 F DEBUG   : Build fingerprint: 'qcom/msm8909/msm8909:7.1.1/NMF26F/andbui11141045:eng/test-keys'
12-31 16:22:17.465  2884  2884 F DEBUG   : Revision: '0'
12-31 16:22:17.466  2884  2884 F DEBUG   : ABI: 'arm'
12-31 16:22:17.466  2884  2884 F DEBUG   : pid: 2534, tid: 2733, name: CozmoRunner  >>> /data/data/com.anki.cozmoengine/bin/cozmoengined <<<
12-31 16:22:17.467  2884  2884 F DEBUG   : signal 11 (SIGSEGV), code 1 (SEGV_MAPERR), fault addr 0x0
12-31 16:22:17.467  2884  2884 F DEBUG   :     r0 ffffffff  r1 ffffffff  r2 00000001  r3 00000051
12-31 16:22:17.468  2884  2884 F DEBUG   :     r4 add70e80  r5 00000000  r6 00000000  r7 ae67f1a0
12-31 16:22:17.468  2884  2884 F DEBUG   :     r8 00000000  r9 aeaf4760  sl add780d0  fp b1938690
12-31 16:22:17.468  2884  2884 F DEBUG   :     ip b0b75870  sp ae67f158  lr afd6e92b  pc afd6e960  cpsr a00f0030
12-31 16:22:17.512  2884  2884 F DEBUG   : 
12-31 16:22:17.512  2884  2884 F DEBUG   : backtrace:
12-31 16:22:17.512  2884  2884 F DEBUG   :     #00 pc 00287960  /data/data/com.anki.cozmoengine/lib/libcozmo_engine.so
12-31 16:22:17.513  2884  2884 F DEBUG   :     #01 pc 002c34a7  /data/data/com.anki.cozmoengine/lib/libcozmo_engine.so
12-31 16:22:17.513  2884  2884 F DEBUG   :     #02 pc 00273793  /data/data/com.anki.cozmoengine/lib/libcozmo_engine.so
12-31 16:22:17.513  2884  2884 F DEBUG   :     #03 pc 002751ed  /data/data/com.anki.cozmoengine/lib/libcozmo_engine.so
```

Looking at the first four lines after `backtrace:` you can see the top four addresses on the stack and the shared library they reside.

  - `victor_addr2line libcozmo_engine.so 00287960 002c34a7 00273793 002751ed`

to get:

```
0x00287960: .anki/vicos-sdk/dist/0.9-r03/sysroot/usr/include/c++/v1/memorymemory:4041
0x002c34a7: projects/victor/_build/vicos/Release/../../../engine/aiComponent/behaviorComponent/behaviors/iCozmoBehavior.cpp:714
0x00273793: projects/victor/_build/vicos/Release/../../../engine/aiComponent/behaviorComponent/behaviorStack.cpp:123
0x002751ed: projects/victor/_build/vicos/Release/../../../engine/aiComponent/behaviorComponent/behaviorSystemManager.cpp:154
```
* How do I increase the max files limit on macos Sierra and greater? (when seeing an error like `[Errno 24] Too many open files`)
  - Follow instructions at https://gist.github.com/tombigel/d503800a282fcadbee14b537735d202c

Commit message:

VIC-2477 FAQ.md - How to check battery level
Add instructions for checking the battery level

docs/FAQ.md, after:

## FAQ

If you have a question that you get answered (e.g. in a Slack channel) which might plague others, consider creating an entry here for it.

Additional troubleshooting can be found on [Confluence](https://ankiinc.atlassian.net/wiki/spaces/ATT/pages/362807304/Victor+Build+Troubleshooting).

* How do I set a console var from Webots?
  - Set the `consoleVarName` and `consoleVarValue` strings under the WebotsKeyboardController in the scene tree at left. Press `]` (closing square bracket) to send the message to the engine to set the console var. 
  - Using `}` (closing curly brace) instead will use the name and value strings as a console _function_ and its arguments instead.
  - Hold down `ALT` to send either of the above to the animation process to set console vars/functions there.

* How do I access the Victor embedded web server, from which I can set console vars?
  - [Run the Victor web server](/docs/development/web-server.md) 
  
* `victor_stop`/`victor_restart` hangs with `stopping <number>...` when trying to kill one of the processes
  - Manually kill the process with `ssh <robot-ip> kill -9 <number>`
  - Run `victor_stop` to ensure the rest of the processes are stopped
  
* One of the processes crashed/aborted and the stack trace has no symbols, how do I get symbols for the trace?
  - Manually deploy the full libraries (with symbols) to the robot; they are located in `_build/vicos/<Debug/Release>/lib/*.so.full`
  - `scp _build/vicos/<Debug/Release>/lib/<one_or_more_of_the_libraries>.so.full /anki/lib/<one_or_more_of_the_libraries>.so`
  - Reproduce the crash and you should now see symbols
  
* How do I do performance analysis/benchmarking on robot?
  - Use simpleperf to generate list of highest overhead functions in a process by running [`project/victor/simpleperf/HOW-simpleperf.sh`](/project/victor/simpleperf/HOW-simpleperf.sh)
  - If the script fails with the error: `[native_lib_dir] "./project/victor/simpleperf/symbol_cache" is not a dir`, cd into `./project/victor/simpleperf/` and run `make_symbol_cache.sh`
  - Use inferno to generate a flame graph of call hierarchies by running [`project/victor/simpleperf/HOW-inferno.sh`](/project/victor/simpleperf/HOW-inferno.sh)
  - By default both scripts run on the engine process, `cozmoengined`. Change this by prepending `ANKI_PROFILE_PROCNAME="<name_of_process>"` to the command to run the script. The other two process names are `victor_animator` and `robot_supervisor`
  - To see overall cpu load per process run `top -m 10`
  
* Victor won't turn on, the top backpack light blinks orange/red
  - Victor has low battery, turn Victor off and turn back on with the backpack button. Put Victor on the charger and the lights should return to normal multicolor or green, leave on charger for ~30 minutes
  
* `Sending Mode Change ...` or `spine_header ...` errors continually spam in the logs
  - Ensure you have deployed correctly built code otherwise Syscon and robot process are likely incompatible, give to [Al](https://ankiinc.atlassian.net/wiki/display/~Al.Chaussee) or [Kevin](https://ankiinc.atlassian.net/wiki/display/~kevin) to have firmware flashed
  
* I can't connect or ping Victor, he doesn't seem to be connected to wifi
  - Use the companion app, Chewie, to configure Victor's WiFi

* Deploying is super slow
  - Try turning off wifi on your laptop and use ethernet instead
  - Run `victor_stop` before deploying
  - Try moving to somewhere else in the office, a conference room or the kitchen. Might be an access point/network problem
  - If nothing seems to help consider bringing to HW team, could be a bad antenna
  
* Deploying to the robot fails (possibly complains about out of disk space?)
  - You can safely remove the cache and persistent folders with `ssh <robot-ip> rm -rf /data/data/com.anki.victor/cache /data/data/com.anki.victor/persistent`
  - If this isn't enough, in the shell you can check disk usage with `df` to list percentage of space each section has free, you should only care about the `/` and `/data` sections. The percentage indicates how much space the section is using out of how much total space it has.
  - You can then inspect space usage with `du -h /anki` which will list disk usage of all directories in `/anki`. Most things that get deployed live in `/anki`. Files that get generated at run-time may be stored in `/data/data/com.anki.victor`.
  - You can also delete the `/anki` folder with `rm -rf /anki`, but in general you should never have to do. It may be useful when the you get an error like this.
  
```
$ victor_deploy
INSTALL_ROOT: /anki
rsync: failed to connect to 192.168.42.251: Connection refused (61)
rsync error: error in socket IO (code 10) at /BuildRoot/Library/Caches/com.apple.xbs/Sources/rsync/rsync-51/rsync/clientserver.c(106) [sender=2.6.9]
```
  
* How do I run unit tests
  - https://ankiinc.atlassian.net/wiki/spaces/VD/pages/149363555/Victor+Unit+Tests

* I get permission denied during build `error: can't exec 'victor/_build/mac/Debug-Xcode/launch-c' (Permission denied)`
  - `chmod u=rwx victor/_build/mac/Debug-Xcode/launch-c`
  - `chmod u=rwx victor/_build/mac/Debug-Xcode/launch-cxx`

* To check the battery level:
   1. Place Victor on charger
   1. Double click his back button
   1. Raise and lower the lift the full way to enter the debug screen
   1. Move his head all the way down and back up
   1. A tiny pixel will appear in the upper right of the face
   1. Use the button to cycle through the various face screens
   1. The second screen has battery like `BATT: 4.18V`

* Webots Firewall Connection issues?
  - [Create a code signing certificate](/project/build-scripts/webots/FirewallCertificateInstructions.md)
  - [Run a sample script to initially sign](/simulator/README.md#firewall)

* Can't generate Xcode project using `build-victor.sh -p mac -g Xcode -C` and getting error output like this
```
-- The C compiler identification is unknown
-- The CXX compiler identification is unknown
CMake Error at CMakeLists.txt:9 (project):
  No CMAKE_C_COMPILER could be found.
CMake Error at CMakeLists.txt:9 (project):
  No CMAKE_CXX_COMPILER could be found.
```

  * ... then perform these steps (continued from above)
   	* Install command line tools
    * `sudo xcode-select -s /Applications/Xcode.app/Contents/Developer`# New Document
   
* Can't generate Xcode project using `build-victor.sh -g Xcode -C` and getting error output like this
```
CMake Error at lib/util/source/3rd/civetweb/cmake/FindWinSock.cmake:77 (if):
  if given arguments:

    "x86_64" "STREQUAL" "AMD64" "AND" "EQUAL" "4"

  Unknown arguments specified
Call Stack (most recent call first):
  lib/util/source/3rd/civetweb/src/CMakeLists.txt:26 (find_package)
```

  * you forgot `-p mac`
  
* My Victor won't turn on/stay on
  - If only the top backpack light blinks when on the charger then the robot is low on battery and will not turn on by just being placed on the charger
  - First turn the robot on with the backpack button and all the lights should turn on as normal
  - Quickly place the robot on the charger. It should stay on at this point and begin charging
  - Leave the robot on the charger for ~30 minutes

* When profiling I see "...doesn't contain symbol table"
  - This is just a warning, there are no symbol tables for the .so files on the device, instead we use symbols from the symbol cache

* How do I decipher this crash in the victor log

```
12-31 16:22:17.366  2534  2733 F libc    : Fatal signal 11 (SIGSEGV), code 1, fault addr 0x0 in tid 2733 (CozmoRunner)
12-31 16:22:17.367  1848  1848 W         : debuggerd: handling request: pid=2534 uid=0 gid=0 tid=2733
12-31 16:22:17.413  2884  2884 E         : debuggerd: Unable to connect to activity manager (connect failed: No such file or directory)
12-31 16:22:17.465  2884  2884 F DEBUG   : *** *** *** *** *** *** *** *** *** *** *** *** *** *** *** ***
12-31 16:22:17.465  2884  2884 F DEBUG   : Build fingerprint: 'qcom/msm8909/msm8909:7.1.1/NMF26F/andbui11141045:eng/test-keys'
12-31 16:22:17.465  2884  2884 F DEBUG   : Revision: '0'
12-31 16:22:17.466  2884  2884 F DEBUG   : ABI: 'arm'
12-31 16:22:17.466  2884  2884 F DEBUG   : pid: 2534, tid: 2733, name: CozmoRunner  >>> /data/data/com.anki.cozmoengine/bin/cozmoengined <<<
12-31 16:22:17.467  2884  2884 F DEBUG   : signal 11 (SIGSEGV), code 1 (SEGV_MAPERR), fault addr 0x0
12-31 16:22:17.467  2884  2884 F DEBUG   :     r0 ffffffff  r1 ffffffff  r2 00000001  r3 00000051
12-31 16:22:17.468  2884  2884 F DEBUG   :     r4 add70e80  r5 00000000  r6 00000000  r7 ae67f1a0
12-31 16:22:17.468  2884  2884 F DEBUG   :     r8 00000000  r9 aeaf4760  sl add780d0  fp b1938690
12-31 16:22:17.468  2884  2884 F DEBUG   :     ip b0b75870  sp ae67f158  lr afd6e92b  pc afd6e960  cpsr a00f0030
12-31 16:22:17.512  2884  2884 F DEBUG   : 
12-31 16:22:17.512  2884  2884 F DEBUG   : backtrace:
12-31 16:22:17.512  2884  2884 F DEBUG   :     #00 pc 00287960  /data/data/com.anki.cozmoengine/lib/libcozmo_engine.so
12-31 16:22:17.513  2884  2884 F DEBUG   :     #01 pc 002c34a7  /data/data/com.anki.cozmoengine/lib/libcozmo_engine.so
12-31 16:22:17.513  2884  2884 F DEBUG   :     #02 pc 00273793  /data/data/com.anki.cozmoengine/lib/libcozmo_engine.so
12-31 16:22:17.513  2884  2884 F DEBUG   :     #03 pc 002751ed  /data/data/com.anki.cozmoengine/lib/libcozmo_engine.so
```

Looking at the first four lines after `backtrace:` you can see the top four addresses on the stack and the shared library they reside.

  - `victor_addr2line libcozmo_engine.so 00287960 002c34a7 00273793 002751ed`

to get:

```
0x00287960: .anki/vicos-sdk/dist/0.9-r03/sysroot/usr/include/c++/v1/memorymemory:4041
0x002c34a7: projects/victor/_build/vicos/Release/../../../engine/aiComponent/behaviorComponent/behaviors/iCozmoBehavior.cpp:714
0x00273793: projects/victor/_build/vicos/Release/../../../engine/aiComponent/behaviorComponent/behaviorStack.cpp:123
0x002751ed: projects/victor/_build/vicos/Release/../../../engine/aiComponent/behaviorComponent/behaviorSystemManager.cpp:154
```
* How do I increase the max files limit on macos Sierra and greater? (when seeing an error like `[Errno 24] Too many open files`)
  - Follow instructions at https://gist.github.com/tombigel/d503800a282fcadbee14b537735d202c
